# Why Classes?

- Ruby is an object-oriented programming language, which means it manipulates programming constructs called *objects*.
- Almost everything in Ruby is an object. 
- A class is just a way of organizing and producing objects with similar attributes and methods.
- A class is the blue print from which individual objects are created. 

```rb
"Matz".length
# ==> 4
```

- `Matz` is an instance of the `String` class.

# Class Syntax

- A basic class consists only of the `class`
- `Class names` start with a capital letter and use CamelCase instead of using underscore. 
- Use `initialize` as a function to boot up each object the class creates. 

```rb
    class NewClass
        def initialize
         # Class magic here
        end
    end
```
# What's in a @name?

- `@` signify that it's an instance variable. 
- This means that the variable is attached to the instance of the class. 

```rb
class Car
  def initialize(make, model) 
    @make = make
    @model = model
  end
end
 
kitt = Car.new("Pontiac", "Trans Am")
```

# Instantiating Your First Object

```rb
me = Person.new("Eric")
```

# Scope it Out

- The `scope` of a variable is the context in which it’s visible to the program.
- When dealing with classes, you can have variables that are available everywhere (global variables), ones that are only available inside certain methods (local variables), others that are members of a certain class (class variables), and variables that are only available to particular instances of a class (instance variables).
- Same goes with the variables!

```rb
class Computer
  $manufacturer = "Mango Computer, Inc."
  @@files = {hello: "Hello, world!"}
  
  def initialize(username, password)
    @username = username
    @password = password
  end
  
  def current_user
    @username
  end
  
  def self.display_files
    @@files
  end
end

# Make a new Computer instance:
hal = Computer.new("Dave", 12345)

puts "Current user: #{hal.current_user}"
# @username belongs to the hal instance.

puts "Manufacturer: #{$manufacturer}"
# $manufacturer is global! We can get it directly.

puts "Files: #{Computer.display_files}"
# @@files belongs to the Computer class.

=begin
Output:
Current user: Dave
Manufacturer: Mango Computer, Inc.
Files: {:hello=>"Hello, world!"}
=end
```

# Naming Your Variables

- `@` is an instance variable.
- `@@` is a class variable. 
- `$` is a global variable.

# For Instance...
- Creating a global varilable that can be changed anywhere in the program is not a good idea!
- It's much better to create variables with limited scope that can only be changed from a few places!

# Watch Your Step
- *Inheritance* is the process by which one class takes on the attributes and methods of another, and it’s used to express an is-a relationship.

# Inheritance Syntax

```rb
class DerivedClass < BaseClass
  # Some stuff!
end

```

# When Good isn't Good Enough
- `Super` keyword allows you to directly access the attributes or methods of a *superclass* (parent).
- When you call `super` from inside a method, that tells Ruby to look into the superclass of the current class and find a method with the same name as the one from which `super` is called.

```rb
class Creature
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end
  
  def fight
    return "Punch to the chops!"
  end
end

# Add your code below!
class Dragon < Creature
  def fight
  puts "Instead of breathing fire..."
   super
  end
end

=begin
output:
"Punch to the chops!
"Instead of breathing fire..."
=end
```


# Extra Note

- A `class method` belongs to the class itself, and for that reason, it's prefixed with the class name

```rb
class Machine
  def Machine.hello
    puts "Hello from the machine!"
  end
end

```