# Going Public / Private

- Methods are public by default but still can make it clear for readablilty by adding ```public```

- use ```private``` to specify private ones.
  - you can only call these methods from other code *inside* the object.
  - the method cannot be called with an explicit receiver.
  - in order to access private information, we have to create public methods that know how to get it.

```rb
class ClassName
    public
    def public_method
    end

    private
    def private_method; end
end
```

# attr_reader, attr_writer, attr_accessor

- in order to access attributes
- ```attr_reader```: to access a variable (getter)
- ```attr_writer```: to change it (setter)
- ```attr_accessor```: to make a variable readable and writable.

```rb
class Person
    attr_reader :name
    attr_writer :name

    # same as
    # attr_accessor :name

    def initialized(name)
        @name = name
    end

    # = means "sets a value"
    def name=(value)
        @name = value
    end
```

# Module

- contains a set methods and constants.
- can't create instances and have subclasses.
- just used to store things.

```rb
module ModuleName
end
```

- written in CapitalizedCamelCase
- instead of including variales, have constants that always stat the same.
- constants are written in ALL_CAPS.

## Purposes

- to separate methods and constants into names space. *namespacing*
ex. ```Math::PI``` vs.```Circle::PI```
  - ```::```: scope resolution seperator. module to get the constant.

## Import

- use ```require```

## Include

- Any class that ```include```s a certain module can use those module's methods.

# mixin

- a module is used to mix additional behavior and information into a class.
- to customize a class without having to rewrite code.
- give us the ability to mimic ingeriting from more than one class.

# extend

- class itself can ise the methods.

```rb
module ThePresent
  def now
    puts "It's #{Time.new.hour > 12 ? Time.new.hour - 12 : Time.new.hour}:#{Time.new.min} #{Time.new.hour > 12 ? 'PM' : 'AM'} (GMT)."
  end
end

class TheHereAnd
  extend ThePresent
end

TheHereAnd.now
```
