# Why Object Oriented Programming?

## Encapsulation

- hiding pieces of functionality and making it unavailable to the rest of the code base. It is a form of data protection, so that data cannot be manipulated or changed without obvious intention. It is what defines the boundaries in your application and allows your code to achieve new levels of complexity

## Polymorphism

- the ability for different types of data to respond to a common interface
- "Poly" stands for "many" and "morph" stands for "forms". OOP gives us flexibility in using pre-written code for new purposes.

## Inheritance

- where a class inherits the behaviors of another class, referred to as the superclass. This gives Ruby programmers the power to define basic classes with large reusability and smaller subclasses for more fine-grained, detailed behaviors

# Classes Define Objects

- defines the attributes and behaviors of its objects in classes.
- basic outlines of what an object should be made of and what it should be able to do.
- an object is returned by calling the class method new

```rb
class GoodDog
end

sparky = GoodDog.new
```

# Modules

- a collection of behaviors that is usable in other classes via mixins.
- A module is "mixed in" to a class using the ```include``` method invocation.

```rb
module Speak
  def speak(sound)
    puts sound
  end
end

class GoodDog
  include Speak
end

class HumanBeing
  include Speak
end

sparky = GoodDog.new
sparky.speak("Arf!")        
bob = HumanBeing.new
bob.speak("Hello!") 
```

# State and Behavior

- defining a class, we typically focus on two things: state and behaviors.
- instance variables are scoped at the object (or instance) level, and are how objects keep track of their states.
- instance variables keep track of state, and instance methods expose behavior for objects.

```rb
class GoodDog
  def initialize
    puts "This object was initialized!"
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new 
# "This object was initialized!"
```

- the ```initialize``` method as a *constructor*, because it is a special method that builds the object when a new object is instantiated.
- It gets triggered by the ```new``` class method.

## Instance variables and Instance Methods

```rb
class GoodDog
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end

   def speak
    "Arf!"
  end



end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
sparky.speak # Arf!
puts sparky.name # error!
```

- ```@```: define instance variables
- one of the ways we tie data to objects.
- instance variables are responsible for keeping track of information about the **state** of an object.
- all objects of the same class have the same behaviors, though they contain different states.

## Accessor Methods

- a getter method:  If we want to access the object's variables, which is stored in the ```@xxx``` instance variable, we have to *create a method* that will return the ```xxx```.

- a setter method:

```rb
class GoodDog
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end

  def name                  # This was renamed from "get_name"
    @name
  end

  def name=(n)              # This was renamed from "set_name="
    @name = n
  end

  def speak
    "#{@name} says arf!"
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak
puts sparky.name            # => "Sparky"
sparky.name = "Spartacus"
puts sparky.name          
```

- as a convention, Rubyists typically want to name those getter and setter methods using *the same name as the instance variable* they are exposing and setting.

### attr_accessor

- a built-in way to automatically create these getter and setter methods for us, using the attr_accessor method.

```rb
class GoodDog
  attr_accessor :name

  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end

  def speak
    "#{@name} says arf!"
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak
puts sparky.name            # => "Sparky"
sparky.name = "Spartacus"
puts sparky.name   
```

- The attr_accessor method takes a *symbol* as an argument
- ```attr_reader```: if we only want the getter method without the setter method
- ```attr_writer```: if you only want the setter method, you can use the attr_writer method.
- All of the ```attr_*``` methods take Symbol objects as arguments;

- you could just reference the instance variable, but it's generally a good idea to call the getter method instead.
- Wherever we're changing the instance variable directly in our class, we should instead use the setter method.

## Calling Methods With self

```rb
class GoodDog
  attr_accessor :name, :height, :weight

  def initialize(n, h, w)
    @name = n
    @height = h
    @weight = w
  end

  def speak
    "#{name} says arf!"
  end

  def change_info(n, h, w)
    name = n
    height = h
    weight = w
  end

  def info
    "#{name} weighs #{weight} and is #{height} tall."
  end
end
sparky = GoodDog.new('Sparky', '12 inches', '10 lbs')
sparky.change_info('Spartacus', '24 inches', '45 lbs')
puts sparky.info    
# => Sparky weighs 10 lbs and is 12 inches tall
# not changed????
# The reason our setter methods didn't work is because Ruby thought we were initializing local variables. 
```

- use ```self.name=``` to let Ruby know that we're calling a method.

```rb
def change_info(n, h, w)
  self.name = n
  self.height = h
  self.weight = w
end
```

- This tells Ruby that we're calling a setter method, not creating a local variable.
- we could also adopt this syntax for the getter methods as well, though it is not required.

```rb
def info
  "#{self.name} weighs #{self.weight} and is #{self.height} tall."
end
```

- self. is not restricted to just the accessor methods; you can use it with any instance method.
- the general rule from the Ruby style guide is to "Avoid self where not required."
