# Class Methods

- methods we can call directly on the class itself, without having to instantiate any objects

```rb
def self.what_am_i         # Class method definition
  "I'm a GoodDog class!"
end
GoodDog.what_am_i          # => I'm a GoodDog class!
```

- we use the class name ```GoodDog``` followed by the method name, without even having to instantiate any objects.
- class methods are where we put functionality that does not pertain to individual objects.
- when we have a method that does not need to deal with states.

# Class Variables

- variables for an entire class
- created using two ```@``` symbols like so: ```@@```
- we can access class variables from within an instance method

# Constants

- certain variables that you never want to change
- by using an upper case letter at the beginning of the variable name.
- It is possible to reassign a new value to constants but Ruby will throw a warning.

```rb
class GoodDog
  DOG_YEARS = 7

  attr_accessor :name, :age

  def initialize(n, a)
    self.name = n
    self.age  = a * DOG_YEARS
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky", 4)
puts sparky.age 
```

# The to_s Method

```rb
puts sparky      # => #<GoodDog:0x007fe542323320>
```

- the ```puts``` method automatically calls ```to_s``` on its argument
- the ```to_s``` method returns the name of the object's class and an encoding of the object id.
- ```puts``` method calls ```to_s``` for any argument that is not an array. For an array, it writes on separate lines the result of calling ```to_s``` on *each element of the array*.

## p

- another method called ```p``` that's very similar to puts, except it doesn't call ```to_s``` on its argument; it calls another built-in Ruby instance method called ```inspect```. The inspect method is very helpful for debugging purposes, so we don't want to override it.

```rb
p sparky         # => #<GoodDog:0x007fe54229b358 @name="Sparky", @age=28>
# equivalent to puts sparky.inspect
```

# More About self

1. Use ```self``` when calling setter methods from within the class. In our earlier example we showed that self was necessary in order for our ```change_info``` method to work properly. We had to use self to allow Ruby to disambiguate between **initializing a local variable and calling a setter method**.

2. Use ```self``` for **class method** definitions.

```rb
class GoodDog
  attr_accessor :name, :height, :weight

  def initialize(n, h, w)
    self.name   = n
    self.height = h
    self.weight = w
  end

  def change_info(n, h, w)
    self.name   = n
    self.height = h
    self.weight = w
  end

  def info
    "#{self.name} weighs #{self.weight} and is #{self.height} tall."
  end
   def what_is_self
    self
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new('Sparky', '12 inches', '10 lbs')
p sparky.what_is_self
# => #<GoodDog:0x007f83ac062b38 @name="Sparky", @height="12 inches", @weight="10 lbs">

```

- From within the class, when an instance method uses ```self```, it references the *calling* object.

```rb
def self.this_is_a_class_method
  end
```

- When ```self``` is prepended to a method definition, it is defining a *class method*.
- using ```self``` inside a class but outside an instance method refers to the class itself.
- ```def self.a_method``` is equivalent to def ```GoodDog.a_method```.

1. ```self```, inside of an instance method, references the instance (object) that called the method - the calling object. Therefore, ```self.weight=``` is the same as ```sparky.weight=```, in our example.

2. ```self```, outside of an instance method, references the class and can be used to define class methods. Therefore if we were to define a ```name``` class method, ```def self.name=(n)``` is the same as def ```GoodDog.name=(n)```.
